seo versus cold calling which is best
inbound marketing outbound marketing
let's jump in
and find out but first of all i want to
start with a quick story so if we rewind
back
to around four or five years ago i was
working for a brand new startup
marketing company
and there was only two of us it was the
owner
and myself i was brought on as the only
salesperson
we had very little money as the company
was fully bootstrapped
and at the time we invested most of the
money actually into a brand new website
and there was two things we need new
that we needed to do to bring on
customers
one was invest in seo as
previous companies we we both looked at
seo as a strategy to bring in
inbound clients long term and we knew we
secondly we had to hit the phones
so we employed deployed a company to
look at our seo at the time we only had
a few hundred quid a month to spend on
it
so we put all the spare cash into that
and then i started hitting the phones
and hitting them hard because i needed
to set up appointments and start some
sales revenue coming in
so initially reached out to all existing
contacts i had in my pipeline to see if
there was any opportunities for us to
work together again
and secondly did a bunch of cold
outreach to potential customers
i'd researched and potential other
agencies that could hand us
bits and pieces of work for the
marketing company and set a bunch of
appointments
in cities around the uk and over time
brought on some clients in fact one of
the companies i cold called
back then four or five years ago is now
one of my best clients
and funnily enough even though i'm a
marketing guy one of our best clients
came from
those cold calls so each day i was
sweating away at my desk from morning
till
late afternoon reaching out to these
research prospects seeing if there's any
opportunities for us to
help solve their problem help improve
their business or any gaps that we could
add value to and setting these
appointments
fortunately for me about four or so
months later once the seo started to
take effect we started to get some
inbound opportunities so some business
actually giving us a call
or filling out our inquiry forms for
some projects that they need help with
which in turn meant that i was sweating
away less at my desk
and didn't have to old-call quite so
much because we
started some inbound companies coming
straight
to us all right let's get into it and
compare the pros and cons of cold
calling
versus seo so with cold calling what it
tends to be is your
team or your sales reps are generating
top of funnel opportunities
what do we mean by that well if you
think of your sales funnel a bit
like this quite big large at the top and
as you go down it gets more and more
narrow as leads become more qualified
to more likely to close into sales deals
done and then right at the bottom it's
sales one
closed deals closed business
so cold calling is a great way to
create activities to create sales
conversations with
your target icp so that's your target
ideal customer profile so you can look
into the
companies that you want to be doing
business with looking into the specific
job titles roles that you want to start
conversations with
and then you can get either your own
sales team or your outsourced sales team
to start
phoning them striking up conversations
and seeing if they've got a problem
that you can solve or if there's some
kind of way that you can add value
into their business however
as these are top of funnel opportunities
what you're typically doing is you're
starting the conversation and then
you're moving them
into the next step so that might be a
demo a free assessment
or a secondary discovery call whatever
your sales process looks like
getting that next step booked and so
it's quite a quick way of starting the
activity getting that route to market
and striking those conversations
however some of the pitfalls are it can
take a long time especially if you're a
b2b organization have quite a slow sales
cycle
it can be fairly expensive um you may
have to hire your own sales
team development reps to do the call
calls or an outsourced
agency moving on to seo
so with seo it's a lot higher intent
and with that the customers the people
the prospects rather you're talking to
are gonna be lower down this sales
funnel
so they're gonna be more qualified
because with seo typically if you're
typing things like let's say you're
looking for a sales trainer
you might type something like best sales
training program or best sales trainer
in london
or sales management help something like
that or if you're looking for a crm you
might type in best crm for
small businesses if you're a small
business owner looking for crm so the
chances are you're typing in google
because you need the help
so on the basis that you see the company
on top spot of google page one in the
organic listings you're probably gonna
click
the first or second listing perhaps
compare a couple options
request some demos and then go with the
one that best fits your needs
so like i say high intent because you're
searching for the service because you
probably need it
therefore the people are further down
the funnel they're closer
they're more qualified opportunities
they're close to becoming sales deals
seo also increases your website traffic
so it sends more people to your site it
builds brand because if you keep
seeing a brand when you're searching for
the product or service on google it's
going to increase your brand recognition
and ultimately on the basis that your
website can actually convert this
seo this traffic coming from google into
leads and sales
then it is going to increase both of
those too now one thing to consider with
seo as well
is that it is quite a long term strategy
and
you're talking months rather than weeks
to see results to start getting those
page one google rankings in most
industries anyway
and as well as that you'll even need a
marketing team in-house
to do the work on your website off your
website producing content building
backlinks and all this good stuff to get
your website eventually page one
or you're gonna need to hire a separate
company to do that
for you so to summarize which is best
seo
or cold calling well i hate to say it
but it depends so both have their role
both can be very very good both can
actually complement
each other i mean if you need a fast way
to get top of funnel
leads a bit like i was talking about at
the start of the
video i was working on cold calls to
generate
appointments whilst the seo is going on
then cold calling is a great way to
get to market however
if you want a long-term strategy that's
going to increase your google positions
your branding inbound opportunities
through your website
seo is a great thing to look at for sure
now
both can complement each other because
if you're cold calling people
and they've seen your brand on google
when they've been doing research perhaps
they've seen some content some blog
posts
or such it's only going to help you
because if they've seen your brand
around
they already know a bit about what you
do how you can help it's only going to
put your sales people
in a better position to get the deals
done
and there you have it that's my analysis
of seo versus
cold calling if you've got an opposing
view would love to hear it but otherwise
please do hit subscribe and i'll catch
you on the next episode